a wise son heeds his father's
a wise son heeds his father's instruction but a scoffer
instruction but a scoffer
instruction but a scoffer does not listen to rebuke a man shall
does not listen to rebuke a man shall
does not listen to rebuke a man shall eat well by the fruit of his mouth but
eat well by the fruit of his mouth but
eat well by the fruit of his mouth but the soul of the unfaithful feeds on
the soul of the unfaithful feeds on
the soul of the unfaithful feeds on violence he who guards his mouth
violence he who guards his mouth
violence he who guards his mouth preserves his life but he who opens wide
preserves his life but he who opens wide
preserves his life but he who opens wide his lips shall have destruction the soul
his lips shall have destruction the soul
his lips shall have destruction the soul of a lazy man desires and has nothing
of a lazy man desires and has nothing
of a lazy man desires and has nothing but the soul of the diligent shall be
but the soul of the diligent shall be
but the soul of the diligent shall be made rich a righteous man hates lying
made rich a righteous man hates lying
made rich a righteous man hates lying but a wicked man is loathsome and comes
but a wicked man is loathsome and comes
but a wicked man is loathsome and comes to shame righteousness God's him whose
to shame righteousness God's him whose
to shame righteousness God's him whose way is blameless but wickedness
way is blameless but wickedness
way is blameless but wickedness overthrows the sinner there is one who
overthrows the sinner there is one who
overthrows the sinner there is one who makes himself rich yet has nothing and
makes himself rich yet has nothing and
makes himself rich yet has nothing and one who makes himself poor it has great
one who makes himself poor it has great
one who makes himself poor it has great riches the ransom of a man's life is his
riches the ransom of a man's life is his
riches the ransom of a man's life is his riches but the poor does not hear rebuke
riches but the poor does not hear rebuke
riches but the poor does not hear rebuke the light of the righteous rejoices but
the light of the righteous rejoices but
the light of the righteous rejoices but the lamp of the wicked will be put out
the lamp of the wicked will be put out
the lamp of the wicked will be put out by pride comes nothing but strife but
by pride comes nothing but strife but
by pride comes nothing but strife but with the well-advised his wisdom wealth
with the well-advised his wisdom wealth
with the well-advised his wisdom wealth gained by dishonesty will be diminished
gained by dishonesty will be diminished
gained by dishonesty will be diminished but he who gathers by Labour will
but he who gathers by Labour will
but he who gathers by Labour will increase Hope deferred makes the heart
increase Hope deferred makes the heart
increase Hope deferred makes the heart sick but when the desire comes it is a
sick but when the desire comes it is a
sick but when the desire comes it is a tree of life he who despises the word
tree of life he who despises the word
tree of life he who despises the word will be destroyed but he who fears the
will be destroyed but he who fears the
will be destroyed but he who fears the commandment will be rewarded the law of
commandment will be rewarded the law of
commandment will be rewarded the law of the wise is a fountain of life to turn
the wise is a fountain of life to turn
the wise is a fountain of life to turn one away from the snares of death good
one away from the snares of death good
one away from the snares of death good understanding gains favor but the way of
understanding gains favor but the way of
understanding gains favor but the way of the unfaithful is hard every prudent man
the unfaithful is hard every prudent man
the unfaithful is hard every prudent man acts with knowledge but a fool lays open
acts with knowledge but a fool lays open
acts with knowledge but a fool lays open his folly
his folly
his folly a wicked messenger falls into trouble
a wicked messenger falls into trouble
a wicked messenger falls into trouble but a faithful ambassador brings health
but a faithful ambassador brings health
but a faithful ambassador brings health poverty and shame will come to him who
poverty and shame will come to him who
poverty and shame will come to him who disdains correction that he who regards
disdains correction that he who regards
disdains correction that he who regards a rebuke will be honored a desire
a rebuke will be honored a desire
a rebuke will be honored a desire accomplished is sweet to the soul but it
accomplished is sweet to the soul but it
accomplished is sweet to the soul but it is an abomination to fools to depart
is an abomination to fools to depart
is an abomination to fools to depart from evil he who walks with wise men
from evil he who walks with wise men
from evil he who walks with wise men will be wise but the companion of fools
will be wise but the companion of fools
will be wise but the companion of fools will be destroyed evil pursues sinners
will be destroyed evil pursues sinners
will be destroyed evil pursues sinners but to the righteous good shall be
but to the righteous good shall be
but to the righteous good shall be repaid a good man leaves an inheritance
repaid a good man leaves an inheritance
repaid a good man leaves an inheritance to his children's children but the
to his children's children but the
to his children's children but the wealth of a sinner is stored up for the
wealth of a sinner is stored up for the
wealth of a sinner is stored up for the righteous much food is in the fallow
righteous much food is in the fallow
righteous much food is in the fallow ground of the poor and for lack of
ground of the poor and for lack of
ground of the poor and for lack of justice there is waste
justice there is waste
justice there is waste he who spares his rod hates his son but
he who spares his rod hates his son but
he who spares his rod hates his son but he who loves him disciplines him
he who loves him disciplines him
he who loves him disciplines him promptly
promptly
promptly the righteous eats to the satisfying of
the righteous eats to the satisfying of
the righteous eats to the satisfying of his soul but the stomach of the wicked
his soul but the stomach of the wicked
his soul but the stomach of the wicked shall be in want